LESSON 1 - COMPARING OSI MODEL NETWORK FUNCTIONS

##########
COMPARE AND CONTRAST OSI MODEL LAYERS

The OSI Model:
7) Application
6) Presentation
5) Session
4) Transport
3) Network
2) Data-link
1) Physical





---
Data Encapsulation and Decapsulation


A network protocol is a set of rules for exchanging data in a structured
format with two methods of functionality:

ADDRESSING - Deciding where data messages should go. Each layer has
             differing addressing methods. Layer 2 uses MAC addressing,
	     layer 3 uses IP addressing, etc.
ENCAPSULATION - Describing how the data messages are packaged for
                transmission. Each layer packages the data in its own
		way. At each layer, the protocol addsfields in a header
		for whatever payload it receives from a protocol or
		application.


Each layer uses information from the previous and provides a service
to interface with the next layer. This is called adjacent layer inter-
action.


When a message is sent from one node to another, it goes down the osi
stack on the sender. Each layer that passes the message adds a protocol
data unit (PDU) as a header to the data payload. This is the process of
encapsulation.

The receiving node performs the reverse process. It receives the bit
stream at the physical layer and unpacks the data according to the
protocol up to the application layer. This is decapsulation.



Layer 1 - Physical (infra)'

Cabled, wireless, physical topology/interface, transceiver, repeater
hub, modem, media converter


Layer 2 - Data-link (physical addressing)

This is where devices comminicate logically by being directly connected
to another or to some central device like a sitch or WAP. The data
transmitted at layer 2 is structured into frames. Frames have network
packets as payloads. Header fields are added to the frame payload
to control what the frame does next. Header fields include souce,
destination, and cyclic redundancy check(CRC).

NICs, bridges, switches, WAPs


Layer 3 - Network
Data is moved around networks of networks known as the internet.
The network layer address or logical network address is used to
forward the data packet to the next router until it reaches the
target network. The hardware address is used from there to get to the
target node.

Firewalls operate at layer 3 to filter traffic.


Layer 4 - Transport
The content of the packet becomes significant at this layer. Any host
on a network is communicating simultaneously with other hosts on a
network at all times using different networking data. The transport
layer identifies different networking data types and assigns them port
numbers.

On the sending host, data from the upper layers is packaged as a series
of segments. Each segment is tagged with the application's port number,
then passed to the network layer for delivery. Simultaneous transmissions
using the same application protocols(HTTP,SSH, etc) on a network are
multiplexed using the port numbers along with the source and destination
network addresses onto the same link.

The receiving host decapsulates each segment, identifies the port number,
and passes payload to the relevant application layer handler.

Reliability checks can be implemented, resending lost or damaged packets.

Multi-layer switches, load-balancers, layer 4 firewalls, IDSes, security
appliances


Layer 5 - Session
Opening and closing user sessions between the client/server relationship.


Layer 6 - Presentation
Generates the format required for use in an application from the payload.


Layer 7 - Application
Along with the 3 layers below it, the services here make a network useful.
An application layer protocol doesn't encapsulate any protocols or provide
services to other protocols. This layer provides an interface for software
programs on network hosts that have established a communication channel
through the lower level protocols.





##########
CONFIGURE SOHO NETWORKS

---
SOHO Routers

LAN - a network in a single location
SOHO - a category of LAN with a small number of hosts
WAN - networks is different geographic regions with shared links



Physical Layer Functions
  -> RJ45 ports
  -> Radio antennas
  -> A modem to connect to the ISP (WAN port)


Data-link Layer Functions
  -> Internal ethernet switch
  -> WAP wired to the internal ethernet switch via internal port
  -> Hosts identified by MAC


Network Layer Functions
  -> Makes forwarding decisions between LAN and internet through IP addresses
  -> The LAN uses a private address range for devices directly on its
     network.
  -> The router uses DHCP to assign addresses to each host on the LAN from
     a pool of a pre-defined address space. The addresses assigned to clients
     will use the same network bits, but unique hosts bits in the last octet.
  -> The WAN link is assigned a public IP address by the ISP. When a local
     host tries to access any valid IP outside of ther LAN, the router forwards
     the packet over the WAN interface and directs replies back to the host on
     the LAN.


Transport Application and Security Functions
  -> Filtering rules are applied on the WAN interface, implementing a firewall.
     Traffic can be blocked by IP and port number.
  -> Wireless network encryption.
  -> Management interface login





---
The Internet

What the WAN interface connects to.


The Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN)

Most SOHO internet accessed is facilitated through the PSTN. The SOHO router is
classified as customer premises equipment(CPE).

The CPE is connected via the modem and WAN port to the local loop. The local loop
is the cabling from the customer site to the local exchange.

The point at which the telco's cabling enters the customer prem is the demarc.



Internet Service Providers (ISPs)

The infra of the internet consists of high-bandwidth trunks connecting internet
exchange points(IXPs). Within an IXP datacenter, ISPs establish links between their
networks using peering and transit arrangements to carry traffic to and from parts
of the internet they don't physically own.

There is a tiered hierarchy of ISPs that reflect what extent they depend on transit
agreements with other ISPs.





---
Hexadecimal Notation

Base-10
Each digit can have one of ten possible values (0-9).
A digit positioned to the left of another has 10x the value of the digit to the right:
255 = (2x10x10) + (5x10) + 5


Base-2
A digit in any position can have one of two values (0 or 1), and each place position
is the next power of two:
2 = 0100    6 = 0110    255 = 11111111


Hex Notation
A convenient way of refferring to the long sequence of bytes in network addresses.
Hex is base-16 with values (0-9) and chars (A-F).
