LESSON 16 - COMPARING WAN LINKS AND REMOTE ACCESS METHODS

##########
EXPLAIN WAN PROVIDER LINKS

---
Wide Area Networks and the OSI Model

Enterprise WAN describes a WAN controlled by a single organization.

Public networks are owned by telco and provide WAN services to businesses and
households.

Telco provider links are straight copper, so modems are used instead of switches.

Telcos also have special access rights to easements, under roads, on gov property,
etc.

Modems modulate/demodulate signals into data, working only a the physical layer.

Digital modems aredifferent though. Digital modems modulate Ethernet frames.
Digital modem types include data service units (DSUs) for leased lines, DSL, cable
modems, and satellite modems.





---
WAN Provider Links

On site, the service related entry point at which the access provider's network
terminates is called the demarcation point (demarc).





---
T-Carrier and Leased Line Provider Links

T-carrier systems allow multiple calls to be placed on a single cable.

T1 lines from the telco is terminated at the demarc on a smartjack or Network
Interface Unit (NIU). The smartjack has an RJ-48c or RJ-48x interface on the
customer side that is used to connect to the customer's Channel Service Unit/
Data Service Unit (CSU/DSU). The cabling from the CSU/DSU can use oridinary
RJ-45 patch cord up to 3m, two-pair 22awg with RJ-48 connectors is required for
anything longer than that.

At the data-link layer, T1 leased lines typically use High-Level Data Link
Control (HDLC) or Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP).





---
Digital Subscriber Line Provider Links

Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) is a technology for transferring data over voice-
grade telephone lines, referred to as the local loop.



DSL Modems

DSL modems are installed as CPE, as a multi-function wireless router.

DSL modems are connected to the phone line via RJ-11 and the local network's
router viia RJ-45 Ethernet.

The maximum range of a DSL modem is typically 5km.



DSL Types

The ITU Series G Standards describe the types of DSL:
  -> Symmetrical DSL (SDSL); provides the same up/downlink bandwidth. Typically
     provided with business packages.
  -> Asymmetrical DSL (ADSL; consumer DSL providing fast downlink, but slow
     uplink.





---
Fiber to the Curb

Fiber to the X is to replace the last mile of copper wiring.

Fiber to the Premises/Home (FTTP/FTTH) terminate fiber links at the demarc.





---
Cable Provider Links

Cable internet connection is usually available with Cable Access TV (CATV). These
networks are described as cable broadband.

Cable modems are installed the same as DSL modems.

Cabble modems are aggregated to Cable Modem Termination Systems (CMTS), which
route traffic to the ISPs Point of Presence (PoP) and from there to the internet.
All of this combined is called the Data Over Cable Service Interface
Specification (DOCSIS).





---
Metro-optical Provider Links

Metro-optical provider links (Carrier Ethernet) physical links:
  -> Ethernet over Fiber; uses IEEE 802.3 10GBASE-LR and 10GBASE-ER.
  -> Ethernet over Copper; uses DSL variants such as single-pair high-speed DSL
     (SHDSL) and VDSL to overcome distance limitations of Ethernet.

The two service categories of Carrier Ethernet are:
  -> E-line; establishes a point-to-point link between sites. Multiple E-lines
     can be configured on a single Metro Ethernet interface, with each E-line
     representing a separate VLAN.
  -> E-LAN; establishes a mesh topology between multiple sites.


Passive Optical Networks are now being deployed, bringing fiber to residential
and small business customers.





---
Microwave Satellite

Satellite systems provide a wide range of coverage.

Latency is terrible with satellites because of distance traveled.





##########
COMPARE AND CONTRAST REMOTE ACCESS METHODS

---
Remote Network Access Authentication and Authorization

Remote access is typically implemented as a VPN running over the internet.

Creating a Remote Access Server accompanied by documentation mitigates the risk
of compromise. Typical policy restrictions include:
  -> Restricting access to defined user groups
  -> Restricting access to defined times of day or days of week
  -> Restricting privelages to the local network only
  -> Logging and auditing sessions





---
Tunneling and Encapsulation Protocols

This is what VPNs are.



Point-to-Point Protocol

Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) is an encapsulation protocol that works at the
data-link layer. PPP encapsulates IP packets over serial digital lines. PPP has
no security mechhanisms, so it must be used with other protocols to provision
a secure tunnel.



Generic Routing Encapsulation

GRE works at layer 3. GRE packets can encapsulate other network layer protocol
packets (like IP packets) as its payload. The GRE wrapper is assigned protocol
number 47 and has its own IP source and header address fields.

The GRE packet is itself packaged in a layer 2 frame for Tx to the next hop
router. Each intermediate router inspects only the outer GRE header to determine
the forwarding destination.



IPSec

Internet Protocol Security operates at layer 3, encrypting packets that pass over
any network. Usually we combine IPSec with some other protocol, but it is gaining
traction as a native VPN protocol.



TLS

TLS over TCP or Datagram TLS (DTLS) over UDP can be used to encapsulate IP
packets or frames. Since TLS already operates at the session layer, the headers
from the inner and outer packets add up considerably.





---
Client-to-Site VPNs

In a client-to-site or remote-access topology, the VPN client connects over the
public netwrk to a VPN gatewayy positioned at the edge of the local network
(typically the VPN access server will be in a screened subnet).

This is the model that allows for WFH.

Client-to-site can be configured using a bunch of protocols.

An SSL/TLS VPN uses certificates to establish a secure tunnel. Microsoft's SSTP
and Cisco's L2TP are widely used in conjunction with IPSec.

All these solutions require client software to operate.

Most VPN solutions use EAP and TACACS+/RADIUS models to authenticate.

Remote access VPNs handle client connections one of two ways:
  -> Split tunnel; the client accesses the internet directly using native IP
     config and DNS servers.
  -> Full tunnel; internet access is mediated by the corporate network, which
     will alter the client's IP address, DNS severs, and may even use a proxy.





---
Remote Host Access and Remote Desktop Gateways

RDP and VNC

Microsoft's RDP can be used to access a physical machine on a 1-on-1 basis.

VNC is the same, but for everyone else.



Clientless VPNs

Client apps are typically required to establish a VPN connection.

HTML5 introduced HTML5 VPN (clientless VPN), which allows us to connect to
remote desktops through our browsers. HTML 5 VPN uses WebSockets, which enables
bidirectional messages to be sent between the server and client without requiring
the overhead of separate HTTP requests.



Site-to-Site VPNs

Site-to-Site VPNs are configured to work automatically. The two gateways exchange
security information using whichever protocol the VPN is based on.

The routing infrastructure at each site is what determines whether to deliver
traffic locally or send it over the VPN tunnel.



Hub and Spoke VPNs and VPN Headends

A site-to-site VPN that involves more than two sites and those sites connect to
and HQ site (hub) by using static tunnels to the hub is a hub-and-spoke VPN.

The hub, or center of the hub-and-spoke topology is a powerful router called a
VPN headend.

A dynamic multipoint VPN (DMVPN) allows VPNs to be set up dynamically according
to real-time traffic requirements and demand.

DMVPN allows for the use ofa dynamic mesh topology between multiple remote sites,
effectively setting up direct VPNs, rather than remote sites routing through the
hub.





---
IPSec

Each host that uses IPSec must be assigned a policy. IPSec policies set the
authentication mechanism, protocols, and mode for the connection. Hosts must be
able to match atleast one security method for a succesful connection. Two
protocols cann be applied singly or together with IPSec:

Authentication Header

The AH protocol preforms a cryptographic hash on the whole packet, including the
header, plus a shared secret key, and adds the secret to its header as an
Integrity Check Value (ICV). The recipient preforms the same function and
expects matching answers.

The payload is not encrypted here, so the protocol does not provide privacy.

AH isn't often used because it fails across NAT gateways.



Encapsulating Security Payload

ESP provides confidentiality and authentication integrity. It actually encrypts
the packet rather than simply calculating a hash.

ESP attaches a header, a trailer, and an ICV. ESP excludes the header when
calculating the ICV.





---
IKE and IPSec Modes

The Internet Key Exchange (IKE) handles authentication and key exchange for
IPSec.

IPSec can be used in two modes:
  -> Transport mode; this mode is used to secure communications between hosts on
     a private network. When ESP is applied, the IP header for each packet is
     not encrypted, just the payload data.
  -> Tunnel mode; used for comms between VPN gateways across an insecure network.
     ESP here encrypts the whole IP packet and encapsulates as a datagram with
     a new IP header.





---
Out-of-Band Management Methods

Managed appliance interfaces may include:
  -> Console port; connecting to the device via console cable and using a
     terminal to issue commands.
  -> AUX port; designed to connect to a analog modem and provide remote acces
     over a dial-up link. RS-232 (serial), RJ-45, or DB9 cable can be used to
     connect the modem.
  -> Management port; configuring the virtual network interface and IP address
     on the device to use it for management functions and connecting it to one
     of the normal Ethernet ports.

Management methods can be described as:
  -> In-band; a link that shares traffic with other communications on the
     production network.
  -> Out-of-band; the link is limited to the attached device.

