LESSON 13 - EXPLAINING COMMON SECURITY CONCEPTS

##########
EXPLAIN COMMON SECURITY CONCEPTS

---
Security Concepts

The Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability Triad

  -> Confidentiality; certain information should only be known to certain people.
  -> Integrity; data is stored and transferred as intended and any modifications
     are authorized.
  -> Availability; information is accessible to those authorized to view or
     modify it.



Vulnerability, Threat, Risk

  -> Vulnerability; a weakness that could be accidentally triggered or
     intentionally exploited to cause a security breach.
  -> Threat; the potential to exploit a vulnerability and breach security.
  -> Risk; linkelihood and impact of a threat actor exercising a vulnerability.





---
Security Risk Assessments

Risk assessment is a subset of risk managment. This is where we evaluate our
stuff for threats, vulnerabilities, and proper security posture.



Posture Assessment

To assess an organizations security posture, most of them use a framework of
best practice guides.

These frameworks shape policy and provide procedure checklists, activities
and technologies that should actually be in place.

These frameworks are the security control of the orgaanization.

It is not possible to eliminate risk; rather, the aim is to mitigate risk
factors to the point where the organization is exposed only to a level of
risk that it can afford. The overall status of risk management is referred
to as risk posture.



Process Assessment

Mission essential function (MEF); a critical process that cannot be deferred.

Business impact analysis (BIA); process of assessing what losses might occur
for a range of threat scenarios.

BIA identifies the risks, which results in business continuity planning(BCP).





---
Vulnerability and Exploit Types

Vulnerabilities exist because of misconfigurations and poor practice.

Exploits are the actual methods of using a vulnerability to gain control of
a system or damage it in some way.



Zero-Day Vulnerabilities and Exploits

Zero-Day; a vulnerability that is exploited before the developer knows or
can patch it. These are rare events.



Unpatched Legacy Systems

For obvious reasons...



Vulnerability Assessment

An evaluation of a system's security and ability to meet compliance requirements
based on the configuration state of the system. We compare findings with a
established baseline.



Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures

CVE is a dictionary of vulnerabilities in published OSes and application
software.





---
Threat Types and Assessment

External vs Internal Threats

External actors are ones with no original accounts or access to target systems.
Internal actors are on the inside (employee, contractor, partner).



Threat Research

An alliance of organizations to discover and establish the tactics, techniques,
and procedures(TPPs) of threat actors.

  -> Behavioral threat research; narrative commentary describing examples of
     attacks and TTPs gathered through primary research sources.
  -> Reputational threat intelligence; lists of IP addresses and domains
     associated with malicious behavior, plus signatures of known file-based
     malware.
  -> Threat data; data that can correlate events observed on a customer's own
     network and logs with known TTP and threat actor indicators.





---
Security Information and Event Management

SIEM is a security control designed to integrate vulnerability and threat
assessment efforts through automated collection, aggregation, and analysis of
log data.

SIEMs second critical function is correlation. SIEMs can link individual events
or data points into a meaningful indicator of risk (indicator of compromise).

SIEM can also provide a long-term retention function and be used to determine
regulatory compliance.





---
Penetration Testing

Pen testing is the authorized use of exploitation techniques to discover
exploitable weaknesses in the target's security systems.





---
Privelaged Access Management

PAM refers to policies, procedures, and technical controls to prevent the
malicious abuse of privelaged accounts by internal threat actors to mitigate
risks from weak configuration control over privelages.

General principles of PAM include:
  -> Least privelage; a user is granted sufficient rights to preform his or her
     job and no more.
  -> Role-based access; a set of organizational roles are defined, and subjects
     sllocated to these roles.
  -> Zero trust; used to mitigate priivelage escalation and account compromise
     by threat actors.





---
Vendor Assessment

The process of selecting suppliers and evaluating the risks inherent in relying
on a third party product or service.





##########
EXPLAIN AUTHENTICATION METHODS

---
Authentication Methods and Access Controls

We use ACLs.

We also use identity and access management(IAM) systems, which can be described
in four processes:
  -> Identification; account or ID that idenntifies the user, device, or
     process on the network.
  -> Authentication; proving the subject is what it is.
  -> Authorization; determining what rights subjects should have and enforcing
     those constraints.
  -> Accounting; tracking usage of a resource whether authorized or not.





---
MFA and Two-Factor Authentication

Credentials are authentication factors. Authentication factors fall into:
  -> Knowledge factor; something you know (password)
  -> Ownership factor; something you have (ID)
  -> Human/Biometric factor; something you are (fingerprint)
  -> Behavioral factor; something you do (signature)
  -> Location factor; somewhere you are (location services)


Combining more than one of these authentication factors results in MFA.





---
Local Authentication and SSO

Local authentication is the software architecture and code that drives the
mechanism by which a user is authenticated before starting a shell.

This is the login/sign-in prompt on Linux and Windows. Which is a knowledge
based authentication method.

Knowledge based authentication relies on hashes, which convert strings to a
unique fixed length code that cannot be converted back to plaintext.



Single Sign-on allows the user to authenticate once to a local device, and be
authoriized to access compatible application servers without having to enter
credentials again.





---
Kerberos

Kerberos provides SSO authentication to AD, as well as compatibility with other
OSes.

Kerberos consists of three parts (like the 3-headed dog Cerberus):
  -> Clients; request services from some application server
  -> Key Distribution Center (KDC); intermediary between client and application
     server that vouchhes for eaches identity.
  -> Application Server

There are two services that make up a KDC:
  -> Authentication Service
  -> Ticket Granting Service





---
Digital Certificates and PKI

Digital certificates are issued by an authenticating domain to validate identity
of someone/thing and establish a secure transmission channel.

Digital certificates depend on public key cryptogrophy, and it works like:
  -> When we want others to send us confidential messages, we give them our
     public key to use to encrypt the message. The message can only be decrypted
     by our private key, which is only known to us. Even though the public key
     was used to encrypt the message, it cannot be used to decrypt it.
  -> When we want to authenticate to others, we create a signature and sign it
     by encrypting the signature with our private key. We give others the public
     key to decrypt the signature. Since only we know the private key, everyone
     can be assured that only we could have created the signature.

Public key cryptogrophy is vulnerable to on-path attacks, where a threat-actor
substitutes our public key for their own.

Public Key Infrastructure(PKI) aims to prove that owners of public keys are who
they say they are.

In PKI, anyone issuing public keys should obtain a digital certificate. The
validity of the certificate is guaranteed by a CA. A digital certificate is a
wrapper for something's public key. Digital certificates also contain metadata
about the owning entity.





---
Extensible Authentication Protocol and IEEE 802.1X

Extensible Authentication Protocol(EAP) provides a framework for deploying
multiple types of authentication protocols and technologies.

802.1x Port-based Network Access Control(NAC) provides means of using EAP when
a device connects to an Ethernet switchport, WAP, or VPN gateway through an
authentication, authorization, and accounting(AAA) architecture:
  -> Supplicant; the device requesting access
  -> NAS or NAP; edge network appliances such as switches, APs, or VPN gateways.
  -> AAA server; the authentication server positioned within the LAN (RADIUS or
     TACACS+)

With AAA, all authentication is done through the authentication server. None of
that data is stored on the end network devices.





---
RADIUS and TACACS+

Remote Authentication Dial-in User Service (RADIUS) is widely used for client
device access over switches, WAPs and VPNs.

RADIUS uses UDP/1812 and UDP/1813.

Each RADIUS client must be configured with the IP address of the RADIUS server
and possess the same shared secret.





---
TACACS+

Terminal Access Controller Access Control System is similar to RADIUS but on
steroids.

RADIUS is typically ised for end user access control.

TACACS+ is typically used for access to routers and switches.

TACACS+ uses TCP/49, so detecting when a server is down is reliable.

TACACS+ supports per command authentication.





---
LDAP

Lightweight Directory Access Protocol is a protocol used to query and update an
X.500-like directory.

LDAP is on TCP/389 and UDP/389.
LDAP provides no security.





---
LDAP Secure

Authentication can be implemented in the following ways:
  -> No authentication; anon access granted to the directory.
  -> Simple bind; client must supply a distinguished name and passwd, but are
     passed as plaintext.
  -> Simple Authentication and Security Layer(SASL); client-server negotiate the
     use of a supported authentication mechanism (like Kerberos). The STARTTLS
     command can be used to require encryption and message integrity. This is
     Microsoft's AD implementation of LDAP.
  -> LDAP Secure (LDAPS); server is installed with a digital certificate, which
     it uses to set up a secure tunnel for the user credential exchange.

LDAPS uses port TCP/636.

The LDAP directory server should only be accessible from the private network.
LDAP ports TCP/389 and UDP/389 should be blocked by a firewall from access over
the public interface.

