LESSON 15 - DEPLOYING AND TROUBLESHOOTING WIRELESS NETWORKS

##########
SUMMARIZE WIRELESS STANDARDS

---
IEEE 802.11 Wireless Standards

802.11 standards are what defines the physiical layer standards of WiFi. Data is
encoded into a radio carrier signal by using a modulation scheme.

Wireless radios transmitting and receiving within a particular range of frequencies
with the same modulation scheme is a half-duplex shared access medium (a physical
data bus).

802.11 uses Carrier Sense Multiple Access with Collision Avoidance (CSMA/CA) to
mitigate bandwitch contention. With CSMA/CA a station preforms error checking when
it receives a frame -- if the frame is in tact, the station responds with an ACK.
If the ACK is not received, the transmitting station resends the frame until timing
out.

Virtual Carrier Sense flow control also helps with collisions. A station broadcasts
a Request to Send (RTS) with the source, dest, and time to transmit. The receiving
station responds with a Clear to Send (CTS) and all other stations in range will
not attempt to transmit within that period.





---
IEEE 802.11a and 5GHz Channel Bandwidth

Every wireless device operates on a specific radio frequency range within an
overall frequency band, the specific frequency band the device operates is its
channel.

There are two frequency bands used by IEEE 802.11 standards:
  -> 2.4GHz; better at propagating through solid surfaces, it provides the longest
     signal range. Does not support a high number of individual channels and is
     often congested with other networks and other types of WiFi technology.
     Maximum achievable data rates are lower and interference is higher than
     5GHz.
  -> 5GHz; less effective at penetrating solid surfaces, so has a shorter range
     than 2.4GHz. 5GHz supports more individual channels and suffers less from
     congestion and interference. 5GHz supports higher data rates at shorter
     ranges.


The 5GHz band is subdivided into 23 non-overlapping channels, each 20MHz wide.
There are 23 channels on 5GHz under the modern 802.11h standard. 802.11h also
supports Dynamic Frequency Selection (DFS) to prevent APs working in the 5GHz band
from interfering with radar and satellite signals.





---
IEEE 802.11b/g and 2.4GHz Channel Bandwidth

802.11b supports Direct Sequnce Spread Spectrum(DSSS) and Complimentary Code
Keying(CCK) signal encoding.

2.4GHz is subdivided into 14 channels, spaced at 5GHz intervals from 2412MHz to
2484MHz.

WiFi needs around 20MHz per channel, and 2.4GHz only supports 5MHz per channel.
This means that there is large overlap between channels. Co-channel interference
is an actual issue, so it is best to choose channels more widely spaced apart (i.e.
1, 6, 11).

Permitted channels by country:
  -> USA; 1-11
  -> Europe; 1-14
  -> Japan; all 14


The modern 802.11g standard offers OFDM, DSSS, and CCK with the same channel
layout.

802.11g has a nominal data rate of 54Mbps.





---
IEEE 802.11n, MIMO, and Channel Bonding

802.11n uses Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) to multiplex signals from 4
antennas.

802.11n radio chains are identified by AxB:C notation:
  -> A = number of Tx antenna
  -> B = number of Rx antenna
  -> C = number of simultaneous Tx and Rx streams

802.11n can use both 5GHz or 2.4GHz.

802.11n can also combine two 20MHz channels into one, cobining into a single 40MHz
channel. This is called channel bonding. Channel bonding is obviously only
practical on the 5GHz band.

The data rate for 802.11n is 72Mbps per stream. Nominal data rates can be as high
as 600Mbps for a 40MHz bonded channel.

802.11n can operate at the HT/greenfield mode for maximum performance, or HT mixed
mode for compatibility with older standards.

Mixed-mode reduces overall WLAN performance.

Greenfield mode will likely cause substantial interference with neighboring legacy
WiFi.

802.11n is the same as WiFi 4.





---
WiFi 5 and WiFi 6

WiFi 5 (802.11ac)

WiFi 5 is only designed to work in the 5GHz band. The goal of WiFi 5 is to get the
throughput like Gigabit Ethernet or better. Channel bonding up to 80 or 160 MHz
channels, 8 spatial streams, and denser mosulation at closer ranges.

WiFi 5 is designated as Very High Throughput on the spectrum.



WiFi 6 (802.11ax)

Improves the amount of data sent per packet by 40%.

WiFi 6 is designated as High Efficiency (HE).

The goal of WiFi 6 is to approximate 10G connection speeds. These data rates can
only be achieved throught a new 6GHz frequency band.

WiFi 6 reinstates operation in the 2.4GHz band to support IoT device connectivity.





---
Multiuser MIMO

An AP can communicate with only one station at a time, so multiple station requests
go into a queue.

Multiuser MIMO or beamforming addresses the issue by allowing the AP to utilize its
multiple antennas to process a spatial stream of signals in one direction
separately to other streams.

Groups of stations on a different alignment can connect simultaneously and also
obtain more bandwidth.

In DL MU-MIMO, only one AP can initiate beamforming, so it is only available on the
downlink from AP to station.

WiFi 6 supports uplink (UL) MU-MIMO allowing stations to initiate beamforming with
the access point.





---
2G and 3G Cellular Technologies

These are cellular frequencies generated by base stations or radio towers operated
by telecommunications providers.

Each base station has an effective range of 5mi.

Cellular radio works in the 850-1900MHz frequency bands (America), 900-1900MHz for
the rest of the world.

2G experienced two competing formats:
  -> Global System for Mobile Communication (GSM) - these phoens used TDMA. With
     TDMA, each subscriber gets access to a radio channel being allocated by a time
     slot. GSM allows a user to use a SIM cars to use an unlocked handset with
     their chosen network provider. AT&T and TMobile.
  -> Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) - each user gets a code to key the
     modulation of their signal and this key is used by the receiver to extract the
     user's traffic from the radio channel. The provider manages the device with
     CDMA, not the SIM. This is Sprint and Verizon.

3G:
  -> GPRS/EDGE was added; allowed for "always-on" data connections and increased
     speeds.
  -> HSPA+; on GSM networks, allowing for faster data rates. Coined 4G.
  -> EV-DO; deployed by CDMA networks. Slower.





---
4G and 5G Cellular Technologies

Long Term Evolution (LTE) is a converged standard supported by both GSM and CDMA.
LTE devices must have a SIM card.



5G

We see speeds from 50Mbps-300Mbps.





##########
INSTALL WIRELESS NETWORKS

---
Infrastructure Topology and WAPs

Wireless networking devices are referred to as sations (STA), similar to a node on
a wired network. Most wireless networks are deployed in an infrastructure topology.

With infrastructure topologies, each station is configured to connect to a base
station or AP, forming a logical star topology.

Along with facilitating comms between client devices, an AP can act as a bridge to
a cabled network segment. This is referred to as a infrastructure Basic Service Set
(BSSID) which is the MAC of the AP. The BSS can be grouped together in an Extended
Service Set.





---
Wireless Site Design

Clients are configured to join a WLAN through the network name, which is the
Service Set Identifier (SSID). SSIDs can be up to 32bytes in length and should
only be used with ASCII chars, including hyphen and underscore.

When multiple APs are connected to the same distribution system, they are grouped
into an ESSID. This means all APs are configured with the same SSID and security
information.

The area served by a single AP is referred to as a basic service area (BSA) or
wireless cell.

The area in which stations can roam between access points to stay connected to the
same ESSID is referred to as an extended service area (ESA).



SSID Broadcast and Beacon Frame

WLANs advertise their prescence by broadcasting the SSID in frames called beacons.
If the SSID broadcast is suppressed, the connection must be configured manually.

The beacon frame contains the SSID, supported data rates/signalling, plus
encryption/authentication requirements.

The beacon broadcast interval can be modified, but is usually set at 100ms.
Increasing the interval reduces the overhead of broadcasting the frame but delays
joining the network and can hamper roaming between APs.



Speed and Distance Requirements

Devices supporting the WiFi standard should have an indoor range of at least 30m.
Outdoor ranges can even be triple of indoor. Each station determines an appropriate
data rate given the quality of the signal using Dynamic Rate Switching/Selection.
The station will select the highest available data rate determined by the 802.11
standard; if the sgnal is weak, the station will reduce the data rate.

Conducting a site survey prior to installation can mitigate future distance
limitation issues.





---
Site Surveys and Heat Maps

Site surveys start with examining the blueprints/floor plan of the site. Visual
inspection of the site can supplement this to identify Radio Frequency Interference
(RFI) objects. 

Then we can determine the placement of cells, APs, and antennas. When conducting
device placement, the goal is to eliminate dead zones with as much interference
as possible.

We can test the strength of our placed devices with heat mapping software.





---
Wireless Roaming and Bridging

Clients can roam within an Extended Service Area (ESA). ESAs are created by
installing APs with the same SSID and security configuration connected by a wired
network called a Distribution System (DS).

The APs are configured to different channels so that there isn't any interference
when BSAs overlap. When the clients signal begins to weaken, it searches the area
for another AP with the same configuration on other channels or freq bands.

We can also configure multiple access points to cover areas where it is not
possible to run cabling. These are called Wireless Distribution Systems (WDS). On
a WDS, the APs must be configured with the same channel, SSID and security params.

The APs will be in WDS/repeater mode. One AP is the base station, the others are
remote stations. The base station is connected by cable and the others wirelessly.
The remote stations can accept connections from wireless stations and forward all
traffic to the base station.

WDS can be used to bridge two cabled segments, although wireless clients aren't
supported in bridge mode. The APs only forward traffic between segments.





---
Wireless LAN Controllers

Wireless LAN Controllers are dedicated hardware devices that centralizes the
management of wireless APs and clients.

Fat APs can manage their clients themselves, without a wireless controller,
thin APs require a wireless controller.





---
Ad Hoc and Mesh Technologies

Ad Hoc Technology

This is where a wireless adapter allows connections from other devices. These are
called Independent Basic Service Sets (IBSS).

These topologies do not require APs. All of the conected stations must be within
a certain range of another.



Mesh Topology

802.11s defines a Wireless Mesh Network (WMN).





##########
TROUBLESHOOT WIRELESS NETWORKS

---
Wireless Performance Assessment

Wireless issues can broadly be divided into three issues -- signal strength,
interference, or configuration issues.

We must distinguish between speed and throughput:
  -> Speed is the data rate that has been established at the physical and data-link
     layers.
  -> Throughput is the amount of data that can be transferred at the network
     layer, discarding overhead from layers 1 and 2.





---
Signal Strength

Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) is the strength of the signal from the
transmitter at the client end. When measuring RSSI, the dBm will be a negative
value. Values closer to zero represent better performance.

The comparative strength of the data signal to the background noise is called the
signal-to-noise (SNR) ratio.

We want values representing noise to be further from zero.

RSSI and SNR can be measured with a WiFi analyzer.





---
Antenna Types

Antenna types determine the propagation of an electromagnetic wave.

APs with vertical rod-types antenna should be ceiling mounted for best coverage,
unless the ceiling is particularly high.

Unidirectional antenna concetrate a signal in a single direction and should be
placed in areas best for point-to-point communications.

Polarization refers to the orientation of the wave propagating from the antenna.





---
Insufficient Wireless Coverage Issues

Extending the distribution system or bridging WiFi devices are the only two ways
to cover areas. Placement must be well thought out.



Antenna Placement

Using a site survey and a heat map can help determine antenna placement and type.



Antenna Cable Attenuation

This happens when the antenna is placed some distance from an AP and connected by
coax cabling.



Effective Isotropic Radiated Power/Power Settings

The power at which the AP transmits is configurable.

Effective Isotropic Radiated Power (EIRP) is calculated as the sum of Tx power,
antenna cable/connector loss, and antenna gain.

Increaing Tx power typically doesn't help with coverage.

APs should Tx at 2/3rds of the weakest client power.





---
Channel Utilization and Overlap Issues

There are two main types of channel interference:
  -> Co-channel interference (CCI); this is contention, when multiple APs use the
     same channel. Wireless devices must use CSMA/CA to find opportunities to TX.
  -> Adjacent Channel Interface (ACI); this occurs when routers are configured to
     use different, but overlapping channels. ACI slows the CSMA/CA process and
     raises noise levels.

At least 25MHz spacing should be allowed to avoid channel overlap.

With a bunchh of APs around using different channels, lowering the Tx power of
some APs would help with overlap issues.

The cells of each AP do theed to overlap to some extent to achieve seamless
roaming for mobile devices.





---
Overcapacity Issues

Overcapacity is when too many clients connect to the same AP.

30 clients per AP is the rule of thumb here.





---
Interference Issues

Sources of interference include:
  -> Reflection/bounce (multipath interference); mirrors and shiny surfaces cause
     signals to reflect.
  -> Refraction; glass, water, or other transparent, clear surfaces cause radio
     waves to bend.
  -> Absorbtion; walls, windows, and other barriers absorb radio waves.
  -> Electromagnetic Interference (EMI); interference from a powerful radio or
     electromagnetic source working in the same frequency band.

EMI can be detected with a spectrum analyzer, which read all sorts of signals.
WiFi analyzers filter out everything but WiFi signals.





##########
CONFIGURE AND TROUBLESHOOT WIRELESS SECURITY

---
WiFi Encryption Standards

WPA tried to fix WEP with TKIP to mitigate attacks against WEP.

WPA(OG) and WEP are insecure because attackers can carry out replay attacks
that can recover encryption keys.

WPA2 uses AES with CCMP. AES replaced RC4 and CCMP replaces TKIP. But WPA2
sucks as well.

WPA3 is out now. Apparently we should be using that.





---
Personal Authentication

WiFi authentication comes in three types:
  -> Personal
  -> Open
  -> Enterprise

PSK and SAE authentication fall into the personal authentication category.



WPA2 Pre-Shared Key Authentication

WPA2 PSK authentication uses a passphrase to generate the key that is used
to encrypt comms.

PSK sucks and is vulnerable to attack.



WPA3 Personal Authentication

WPA3 PAKE and SAE replace PMK and PSK.

More on that in the coming years...





---
Enterprise/IEEE 802.1x Authentication

WPAs enterprise authentication implements IEEE 802.1x to use EAP to authenticate
against a network directory.

Aunthentication is done through a RADIUS or TACACS+ server on the wired network.





---
WiFi Security Configuration Issues

Wrong SSID and Incorrect Passphrase Issues

We can enter the network information manually to connect to an AP if SSID
broadcasts are suppressed. So we must check for typos.

Also, make  sure the authhentication settings are the same on all devices.



Encryption Protocol Mismatch Issues

Check that the client can support the encryption and authhentication standards
being enforced by the AP.





---
Client Disassociation Issues

Clients can send disassociation frames to APs to notify of a closed session.

An issue that can arise is flapping between APs.

If there is no roaming, interference, or driver issues an attack should be
suspected.





---
Open Authentication and Captive Portal Issues

Open authentication means that the client isn't required to authenticate.
Nothing is encrypted over open authentication.

Captive portals are used to redirect unencrypted traffic to an encrypted HTTPS
tunnel.


