LESSON 20 NOTES - SUMMARIZING CLOUD AND DATACENTER ARCHITECTURE

##########
SUMMARIZE CLOUD CONCEPTS

---
Cloud Scalability and Elasticity

Scaleability; the cost involved in supplying the service to more users is linear.
If the number of users doubles in a scaleable system, the cost to maintain the
same level of service will also double. If costs are more than double, the system
is less scaleable. Scaleability can be achieved by adding nodes (horizontal) or by
adding resources to each node (vertical).

Elasticity; the system's ability to handle changes on demand in real time. A system
with high elasticity will not experience loss of service or performance if demand
suddenly doubles, triples, or quadruuples.





---
Cloud Deployment Models

Public, Hosted Private, Private, Community, Hybrid





---
Cloud Service Models

IaaS, SaaS, PaaS, DaaS





---
Cloud Connectivity Options

Internet/VPN, Private-Direct Connect/Colocation





---
IaaS

Where automation and orchestration fully replace manual configuration.

Automation; blocks of code configure systems for us.

Orchestration; automating a sequence of tasks.





---
Cloud Security Implications

Having a 3rd party manage everything is risky, so the SLAs should be defined in
a cloud responsibility matrix.





##########
EXPLAIN VIRTUALIZATION AND SAN TECHNOLOGIES

---
Hypervisor Types

Hypervisors manage the virtual environment of a system and facilitates interaction
with the computer hardware and network.

In a guest OS system, the hypervisoe application is a type II. This is VirtualBox.

Bare metal platforms means that a type I hypervisor is directly intalled on the
computer and manages access to the host hardware without using a host OS.





---
Virtual NICs and Switches

This is the same thing as physical hardware basically, except -

in this networking model, the VMs and the virstual switch can all be contained
within the same hardware platform. In this way, no actual network traffic is
generated. Instead, data is moved from buffers in one VM to another.

Thhree types of virtual switches can typically be created:
  -> External; binds to the host's NIC to allow the VM to communicate on the
     physical network.
  -> Internal; creates a bridge that is usable only by VMs on the host and the
     host itself. Does not permit access to the wider physical network.
  -> Private; creates a switch that is usable only by the VMs. They cannot use the
     switch to communicate with the hosts.





---
Network Function Virtualization

None of the requirements of a virtual network are different than that of a
physical network.

We can model our virtual network after a standard like ETSIs Network Function
and Virtualization (NFV), which divides provisioning into three domains:
  -> Virtual Network Funciton (VNF); specifies and deploys instances of each
     virtual appliance. Designed to run as VMs on standard cpu platforms.
  -> NFV infrastructure; controls the allocation of compute plus storage and
     networking resources to each VNF.
  -> Managment and orchestration (MANO); positions VNFs within workflows to
     preform the forwarding and filtering tasks they are designed for.





---
SANs

SANs provision access to storage devices at block level. Each read or write
operation addresses the actual location of data on the media.

SANs are isolated from the main network, only accessed by servers, not client pc's
or laptops.





---
SAN Connection Types

Fibre Chhannel is defined in the T11 ANSI standard.

An SAN based on a Fibre Channel Switched Fabric (FC-SW) involves three main types
of components:
  -> Initiator; client device of the SAN (file or database server) installed with
     a fibre channel host bus adapter (HBA).
  -> Target; the network port for a storage device. Devices include drives, RAID
     arrays, tape drives, and tape libraries. Space on the storage devices is
     divided into logical volumes, identified by a logical unit number (LUN). The
     initiator will use certain commands to operate the storage devices.
     Initiators and targets are identified by 64-bit Worldwide Names (WWN) similar
     ro network adapter MAC addresses.
  -> FC switch; provides the fabric connecting the initiators and targets. These
     are referred to as directors on the SAN.

Fibre Channel can use rates 1GFC(1Gbps)-128GFC.

With SMF an FC fabric can be up to 10km.
With MMF 500m.



Fibre Channel over Ethernet

FCoE is a means of delivering Fibre Channel packets over Ethernet cabling and
switches. These require converged network adapters (CNAs).

FCoE uses a paticular frme type identified by the value 0x8096. The protocol maps
WWNs onto MAC addresses.





---
iSCSI

Internet Small Computer System Interface (iSCSI) is an IP tunneling protocol that
enables the transfer of SCSI data over an IP-based network. iSCSI works with
ordinary Ethernet network adapters and switches.





##########
EXPLAIN DATACENTER NETWORK ARCHITECTURE

---
Datacenter Network Design

Datacenters are sites dedicated to provisioning server resources. Datacenters
host network services, application servers, and SANs.

Datacenters contain no client PCs, except the hardened Secure Administrative
Workstations (SAWs) used solely to manage the servers.



Traffic Flows

Traffic that goes to and from a data center is known as north-south traffic. This
represents clients outside the datacenter making requests and receiving responses.

Traffic between servers within a datacenter is referred to as east-west traffic.

An East-west traffic request typically cascades into multiple service requests.



Overlay Networks

Overlay networks implement zero trust architectures. Zero trust architectures are
highly segmented networks where each link between two servers must be
authenticated and authorized.

An overlay network uses encapsulation protocols and software defined networking to
create a logical tunnel between two nodes or networks.

When used inside of a datacenter, overlay networks are typically implemented using
virtual extensible LANs (VXLANs).





---
Software Defined Networking

This is a form of IaaC.

SDN Architecture

The IETF divides the SDN model into three layers:
  -> Application layer; applies business logic to make decisions about how traffic
     should be prioritized and secured and where it should be switched. This layer
     defines policies such as segmentation, ACLs, and traffic prioritization and
     policing/shaping.
  -> Infrastructure layer; devices (physical or virtual) that handle the actual
     forwarding of traffic and imposition of ACLs and other policy configurations
     for security.
  -> Control layer; in-between the Application and Infra layer. This layer is
     implemented by a virtual device called the SDN controller. The application
     side is called the northbound API, the infra side is called the southbound
     API.



Management Plane

At the infra level there are separate forwarding and operational planes. The
operational plane implements device state. A management plane sits with the
control plane to interface with the operational plane.





---
Spine and Leaf Topology

Spine and leaf topologies better support east-west traffic. This topology consists
of two layers:
  -> The spine layer comprises a backbone of top-tier switches not linked to one
     another.
  -> The leaf layer contains access switches. Each access switch is connected to
     every spine switch in a full mesh topology. The access switches never have
     direct connections with another.


Advantages of the spine and leaf:
  -> Each server is only a single hop from the backbone.
  -> Multiple redundant links allow for loadbalancing and failover.
  -> The network is loop free, there are no links connecting access switches with
     another.
  -> Multipath redundancy for the servers to the network.





---
Datacenter Access Types

Branch Office Datacenter Access

A hub-and-spoke type design, has limitations.

GRE encapsulates data from layer 2 (Ethernet) or layer 3 (IP) for tunneling over
any suitable transport network. Multipoint GRE is a version of the protocol that
supports point-to-multipoint links.

Typically used to connect branch offices to an on-premises datacenter located at
the head office.



Colocation

Colocation means that a company's private servers and network appliances are
installed to a datacenter that is shared by multiple tenants.





---
MPLS

MPLS is a means of establishing private links with guaranteed service levels.

MPLS labeled packets are routed by their labels by Label Switching Routers (LSR).
LSRs determine the label switched path (LSP) of the MPLS packet based on network
params. In MPLS, routing tables are avoided and the label is popped off of the
packet once the destination is reached.


A basic use of MPLS is to create site-to-site VPNs to interconnect LANs or a
branch office to a data center.





---
Software-defined WAN

SD-WAN replaces hub-and-spoke type designs with more efficient, but still secure,
connectivity to corporate clouds with less of the expense associated with
provisioning an MPLS service to each remote location.

SD-WANs are overlay networks that provisions a corporate WAN across multiple
locations and can facilitate secure access to the cloud directly from a branch
office or other remote location.

SD-WANs use IPSec.


SD-WANs are managed by a controller and management software in a corporate data
center or public cloud. Each site has an SD-WAN capable router, gateway, or VPN
app.

The controller orchestrates connections to networks and clouds enrolled in the
SD-WAN.

Any available underlying IP network can be used --- broadband, 4G/5G, or private
MPLS VPNs to provision the fastest or most reliable transport to networks and
clouds enrolled in the SD-WAN.

The controller also enforces authentication and authorization.


