LESSON 12 - ENSURING NETWORK AVAILABILITY

##########
EXPLAIN THE USE OF NETWORK MANAGMENT SERVICES


---
SSHs and TTYs

TTYs are terminals, they are the endpoint for communication between computer
and user.

Terminal emulators are what emulates the TTY function.


SSH is how we attain secure remote access to a system. SSH is on TCP port 22.



SSH Host Key

SSH servers are isentified by a public/private key pair. This is the host key.



SSH Client Authentication

The server's host key is used to set up a secure channel to use for the
client to submit authentication credentials. This can be done a few ways:
  -> Username/password; the client submits credentials that are verified
     by the SSH server either against a local user database or using a
     network authentication server.
  -> Public key authentication; each remote user's public key is added to a
     list of keys authorized for each local account on the SSH server.
  -> Kerberos; the client submits the Kerberos credentials obtained when the
     user logged in to the workstation to the server using Generic Security
     Services Application(GSSAPI). The SSH server contacts the Ticket Granting
     service to validate the credential.





---
SSH Commands

sshd - start the ssh daemon

ssh-keygen - create a key pair to access servers with. The private key gets
             stored on the local system, while the public key is stored on the
	     server using ssh-copy-id.

ssh-agent - configure a service to store keys used to access multiple hosts.
            This provides a single sign on method for multiple SSH servers.

ssh [host] - connect to a specified host
ssh [username]@[host] - connect to a host with that username

scp [username]@[host]:[file] /path/to/file - file transfer client (rcp type)
sftp - file transfer client (ftp type)





---
Telnet

Telnet is an insecure protocol/terminal emulation software tool that
transmits shell commands to remote hosts. It's on TCP/23.

Nothing is encrypted over telnet.

Uninstall telnet and block access to port 23.





---
NTP

Network Time Protocol enables the synchronization of time-dependent
applications. NTP is on UDP/123.

Top-level NTP servers (stratum one) obtain the Coordinated Universal Time(UTC)
via a direct physical connection to an accurate clock source. An NTP server
that synchronizes its time within a stratum 1 server over a network is
operating at stratum 2.

Each stratum represents a step away from clock accuracy.

In Windows we use win32tm to configure time.

In Linux we use /etc/ntp.conf:

tylerbrw@u39190a389f8a59:~$ cat /etc/ntp.conf 
server ant.amazon.com
server dc-iad2d-04.ant.amazon.com
server dc-iad4a-04.ant.amazon.com
server dc-iad4a-05.ant.amazon.com
server dc-iad6b-04.ant.amazon.com
server dc-iad6b-05.ant.amazon.com





##########
USE EVENT MANAGEMENT TO ENSURE NETWORK AVAILABILITY

---
Performance Metrics Bottlenecks and Baselines

Performance Metrics

  -> Bandwidth/throughput; this is the speed of all interfaces available
     to the device, measured in Mbps or Gbps. For wired Ethernet links, this
     will not typically vary. WAN and wireless links can change over time.

  -> CPU/memory; if cpu or memory usage is high, consider upgrading or
     reconfiguring an intensive process.

  -> Storage;



Bottlenecks

Bottlenecks are points of poor performance that reduce the productivity of
the entire network.



Performance Baselines

Baselines establish resource utilization at a point in time.

We can use baselines to compare with later.





---
Environmental Monitoring

Temperature
Humidity
Electrical voltage
Flooding





---
SNMP

SNMP is how we monitor and manage network connected devices.



SNMP Agents

The agent is a process running on an SNMP device. The agent maintains the
MIB, which holds statistics of devices.

Each param in a MIB is referred to by the OID.
OIDs are stored in a tree structure.

An agent is configured with the community name of the devices allowed to
manage the agent and the IP address or hostname of the server running the
management system.

The community name is a sort of password. Agents can pass information only
to management systems with the same community name.

There are two community names --- one for read-only access, one for read-write
access (privelaged mode).



SNMP Monitor

Monitors poll agents at regular intervals to update their MIBs and then
display the information. Trap operations are also displayed as alerts. The
monitor can retrieve information from a device two ways:
  -> Get; the monitor queries the agent for a single OID. This command is
     used to preform regular polling of agents at defined intervals.
  -> Trap; the agents notifies the monitor of an event. Trap triggers
     are configured by the admin.

The Set command can be used to change values.

A monitor can also walk an MIB subtree by using multiple Get and Get Next
commands to discover the complete MIB layout.

Device queries are over UDP/161.
Traps are over UDP/162.





---
Network Device Logs

System Logs
Records startup events plus subsequent changes to the configuration at the
OS level. Includes kernel processes, drivers, core services.



Application Logs
Records data for a single service.



Audit logs
Records the use of authentication and authorization privelages. Generally
records success/fail type events. Can be performed at a system or
application level.



Performance/Traffic Logs





---
Log Collectors and Syslog

Log collectors aggregate event messages from numerous devices to a single
location.

Syslog is a protocol and supporting software that facilitates log collection.
Syslog collectors listen on port UDP/514.

Syslog messages consist of a PRI code, a header (timestamp && hostaname), and
a message part.





---
Event Management

Syslog severity levels:
  -> 0; Emergency. System unusable (kernel panic).
  -> 1; Alert. Immediate remediation required.
  -> 2; Critical. Immediate remediation likely, soon.
  -> 3; Error. Nonurgent fault.
  -> 4; Warning. Nonurgent fault likely developing.
  -> 5; Notice. Potential errors.
  -> 6; Informational. Normal, but reportable.
  -> 7; Debug. Used during R&D.

The logging level configured determines the maximum level at which events are
recorded.

If logging level for remote forwarding is set to 4, events 5+ are NOT
forwarded.





---
Log Reviews

Use a graphing software for this shit.





##########
USE PERFORMANCE METRICS TO ENSURE NETWORK AVAILABILITY

---
Network Metrics

QoS protocols and systems are designed to support real-time services.


Bandwidth
Bandwidth is the amount of information that can be transmitted and measured
in bits per second(bps).

When monitoring bandwidth we must distinguish between the nominal data/Eth
bit rate, the throughput of a link at layer3, and the goodput available to
an application.

Sufficient bandwidth for VoIP would allow for 100Kbps per call up/downstream.

Bandwidth required for video is determined by image resolution, color depth,
and frame rate in fps.



Latency and Jitter

Latency is the time it takes for a transmission to reach its recipient measures
in milliseconds(ms).

Jitter is a variation in delay through the inconsistent delivery of packets measured
in milliseconds.

Latency is what makes us buffer content so that our packets can catch up.

ping, pathping, and mtr can measure latency.

When assessing latency, we must consider Round Trip Time(RTT),
VoIP is generally expected to require an RTT of 300ms.
Jitter should be 30ms or less.
The link should also have less than 1% packet loss.





---
Bandwidth Management

Differentiated Services

DiffServ is a Class of Service(CoS) mechanism. Not a QoS.

DiffServ framework classifies each packet passing through a device. The packet
classifications are used to prioritize delivery.

DiffServ is on layer 3 acting as a service tagging mechanism. It uses the type of
service field in the IPv4 header (Traffic Class in IPv6).

The field is populated with a 6-byte DiffServ Code Point(DSCP) by either the sender
or the router.

Packets with the same DSCP and destination are referred to as Behavior Aggregates
and allocated the same Per Hop Behavior(PHB) at each DiffServ compatible router.

DiffServ packets are classified into three types:
  -> Best Effort
  -> Assured Forwarding; not broken into sublevels
  -> Expedited Forwarding; has the highest priority



IEE 802.1p

802.1p works at layer 2 to classify and prioritize traffic passing through a switch
or WAP. 802.1p is a tagging mechanism within the 802.1q VLAN field.

The 3-bit priority value can be 0-7. Most vendors map DSCP vals to 801.1p ones.
0 being the low priority, 7 being highest.





---
Traffic Shaping

QoS is distinct from CoS.

CoS mechanisms only group protocols of different service levels together and tag
them.

QoS offers fine grained control over traffic params.

CoS cannot mitigate congestion, but QoS can. A protocol like MPLS with QoS
functionality can reserve the required bandwidth and pre-determine statistics like
acceptable packet loss, maximum latency, and jitter when setting up a link.

In QoS, network functions are divided into 3 planes:
  -> Control plane; makes decisions about how traffic is prioritized and where it
     should be switched.
  -> Data plane; handles the actual switching of traffic.
  -> Management plane; monitors traffic conditions.

Traffic shapers are protocols, appliances, or software that can apply these three
functions. Based on traffic content, certain packets can be delayed behind other
packets with higher priority.





---
Traffic Analysis Tools

Throughput Testers

Measuring thrughput can be done by transferring a file between hosts and
monitoring.

To determine network throughput:
  -> file-size/time-to-tranfer

Transferring a 1GB file in 30min:
  -> 1GB = 8,589,934,592bits
  -> 8,589,934,592bits in 1,800sec is 4,772,186bps(4.55Mbps)



Top Talkers/Listeners

Top talkers are the interfaces generating the most outgoin traffic in terms
of bandwidth.

Top listeners are the interfaces receiving the most traffic.

The Endpoints report in wireshark can identify the top talkers and listeners.



Bandwidth Speed Testers

There are two classes:
  -> Broadbannd speed checkers; test how fast the local broadband length to the
     Internet is. Mostly designed for SOHO use.
  -> Website performance checkers; queries a nominated website to work out how
     quickly pages load.





---
NetFlow

NetFlow gathers traffic metadata only and reports it to a structured database.
This saves on processing overhead, recording each frame is resource intensive.





---
Interface Monitoring Metrics

-> Link-state; measures whether an interface is up or down.
-> Resets; numbber of times a interface has reset over the counter period.
-> Speed; rated speed of the interface in Mbps or Gbps.
-> Duplex; we need to be running in full duplex mode.
-> Utilization; data transferred over a period.
-> Per-protocol Utilization; packet or byte stats for a specific protocol.
-> Error rate; number of packets per second causing errors.
-> Discards/drops; from checksum errors, mismatched MTUs, packets too small or
   large, high load, and even permissions.
-> Retransmissions; the result of errors and discards/drops.





---
Troubleshooting Interface Errors

Cyclic Redundancy Check Errors

A CRC check is calculated by an interface when it sends a frame. From the
frame's contents a 32-bit CRC value is generated and added to the header as the
FCS.

The receiving interface uses the same calculation, iif it gets a different value
then the frame is rejected.

CRC errors are typically caused by interference.



Encapsulation Errors

When we check the interface status and the physical link is up, but the line
protocol will be listed as down, this happens because:
  -> Ethernet frame type; most common Ethernet frame types are Ethernet II,
     an interface may be configured to use a different frame type.
  -> Ethernet trunks; the trunked switchhes must be configured for 802.1q.
  -> WAN framing; provider router interfaces may use a variety of frame formats,
     the CE and PE must be configured to the same Ethernet frame types.



Runt Frame Errors

Runts are frames that are smaller than the minimum frame size, which is 64bytes
for Ethernet.

Runt frames are typically caused by collisions, and in a switched environment
collisions should only be experienced if connected to some legacy device where
interfaces are on the same collision domain.

Bad drivers can also cause runts.



Giant Frame Errors

These are larger than the maximum size, which is 1518bytes on Ethernet II.

Giant frames are caused by:
  -> Ethernet trunks; each switch being trunked needs to be configured for
     802.1q.
  -> Jumbo frames; a host may be configured to take jumbo frames while the
     switch may not be configured that way. Typically occurs where SANs and
     data networks meet.
