LESSON 17 - EXPLAINING ORGANIZATIONAL AND PHYSICAL SECURITY CONCEPTS

##########
EXPLAIN ORGANIZATIONAL DOCUMENTATION AND POLICIES

---
Operating Plans and Procedures

Configuration Management

Configuration management is identifying and dicumenting all the infra and
devices installed at a site. Under ITIL guidelines, confirguration management
is implemented using these elements:
  -> Service assests are things, processes, or people that contribute to the
     delivery of an IT service. Each asset should have an ID, label, or tag.
  -> Configuration Items is an asset that requires specific management
     procedures for it to be used to deliver the service. CIs are defined by
     their attributes.
  -> Baselines document the approved state of a configuration item. This way
     unauthorized changes will be detected. There are configuration and
     performance baselines.
  -> Configuration Management Systems (CMS) are the tools and databases that
     collect, store, manage, update, and present information about CIs.



Change Management

Change management is implementing changes in a planned and controlled way.



SOPs

Standard Operating Procedures are the sets of rules that govern standard work.





---
System Life Cycle Plans and Procedures

Audit Reports

Audit reports identify and record assets.



Assessment Reports

Assessment reports evaluate the configuration and deployment of assets, such as
deviation from baseline and performance. Recommendations are typically included
in these reports.



System Life Cycle

A function of auditing and assessment, which refers to the controlled aquisition,
deployment, use, and decommissioning of assets.





---
Physical Network Diagrams

Floor Plan

The detailed mapping of wiring and port locations.



Wiring Diagram

Pin-outs show detailed information about the termination of twisted pairs in
an RJ-45 or RJ48c jack or IDC.



Distribution Frame

out.

Height is measured in U, where 1U = 1.75"





---
Logical vs Physical Network Diagrams

We can create separate diagramms for physical, data-link, logical, and
application layers:
  -> PHY; Asset tags and cable links. Corlor coding helps here.
  -> Data-link; showing interconnections between routers and switches, asset
     IDs, management IPs, interface IDs, and link-layer protocol and bandwidth.
  -> Logical (layer 3); IPs of router interfaces, static IP assignments, fire-
     walls, plus links showing the IP network ID and netmask, VLAN ID, and
     DHCP scopes.
  -> Application; Server instances of TCP/UDP ports in use, configs, baselines.





---
Security Response Plans and Procedures

Incident Response Plan

Sets out the procedure, tools, methods of communication, and guidelines for
dealing with security incidents. Incidents are where security is breached or
there was an attempted breach:
  -> The immediate aim is to protect confidential data or minimize impacts from
     its loss and re-establish a secure working system.
  -> Evidence preservation from the incident.
  -> Lessons learned analysis.



Disaster Recovery Plan

DRPs address large-scale incidents threatening the performance of a whole site
or region. DRPs should:
  -> Identify scenarios for natural and unnatural disasters and opts for
     protecting systems.
  -> Identify tasks, resources, and responsibilities for responding to a
     disaster.
  -> Train staff on disaster planning/recovery procedures.



Business Continuity Plan

BXPs are a collection of processes and resources that enable an org to maintain
normal business operations in the face of some adverse event. These plans
include:
  -> Business Impact Analysis (BIA); identifies mission essential and primary
     business functions and the risks that would arise if the org cannot fulfill
     them.
  -> IT contingency planning ensures that these functions are supported by
     resilient IT systems, identifying and mitigating all single points of
     failure from a process or funciton.





---
Hardening and Security Policies

Onboarding

is the process of welcoming a new employee to the organization. Processes
include:
  -> Background check; this process essentially determines that a person is who
     they say they are and are not concealing shitty behaviour.
  -> ID and Access Management (IAM); create accounts, assign appropriate
     privelages, and ensure the credentials are only known to the user.
  -> Asset allocation; provision devices for the user or agree to the BYOD policy
  -> Training; security awareness and role relevant training and certs.



Offboarding

the process of ensuring an employee leaves a company gracefully. Processes
include:
  -> IAM; disable the account and privelages.
  -> Retrieve company assets.
  -> Return their personal assets.





---
Usage Policies

set out rules for how users should interact with network systems and data.



Password Policy

Enforce password best practices:
  -> length; 12-16 chars
  -> Complexity; chars, numbers, upper, lower.
  -> Aging and History; enforce periodic password changes.



Acceptable Use Policies

AUPs set out the permitted use of a product or service.



BYOD Policies

There would have to be some sort of agreement between employee and company.





Data Loss Prevention

DLP products scan content in structured or unstructured data formats to ID
non-conforming stuff.





---
Remote Access Policies

WFH or VPN users must conform to policy, issues that must be mitigated are:
  -> Malware protection
  -> Security information
  -> Data transfer
  -> Local privelages
  -> Weak authentication
  -> Untrusted networks

Training the user is the most important part of this.





---
Common Agreements

SLA

SLAs are contractual agreements setting out the detailed terms under which an
ongoing service is provided.



NDA

NDAs are the legal basis for protecting information assets.



MOU

Memorandum of Understandings are preliminary or exploratory agreements to express
an intent to work together.





##########
EXPLAIN PHYSICAL SECURITY METHODS

---
Badges and Site Secure Entry Systems

Physical security.



Access Control Hardware
  -> Badge reader
  -> Biometric



Access Control Vestibule

These are barriers that lead to choke points and lock when an unauthorized thing
tries to pass through.





Physical Security for Server Systems

Locking Racks

Having the racks inside locked cages.



Locking Cabinets

We can keep individual items safe in here.



Smart Lockers

Cabinets that support locking/unlocking with a smart card or badge.





Detection Based Devices

Cameras
Asset tags
RFID tracking





Alarms and Tamper Detection

  -> Circuit; sounds when the circuit is open or closed (like a door sensor)
  -> Motion detection; sets off when shit moves and it shouldnt be.





---
Asset Disposal

Factory resets and removal of data remnants.

Sanitization by incineration, pulverization, and degaussing.

SATA and Serial Attached SCSI (SAS) have a feature called Secure Erase, which is
a single pass erasure.

Self-encrypting drives now have a Instant Secure Erase (ISE) feature. This erases
the media encryption key, rendering the data unrecoverable.





---
Employee Training

Self explanatory.





##########
COMPARE AND CONTRAST INTERNET OF THINGS DEVICES

---
IoT

IoT is the global network of personal devices with various sensors, software, and
network connectivity.

These devices have features that allow them to pass data to eachother and other
more traditional systems like servers. This is Machine to Machine (M2M) comms.



Consumer-grade Smart Devices

An IoT smart device will generally use the following components:
  -> Hub/control System
  -> Smart devices; these are typically running a Linux kernel, so they are
     vulnerable to the same types of things as computers.



Physical Access Control Systems and Smart Buildings

PACS is a network of monitored locks, alarms, and surveillance cameras. BAS
encompasses PACS and HVAC. PLCs are what control and monitor these systems.





Industrial Control Systems/upervisory Control and Data Acquisition

Industrial processes favor availability and integrity over confidentiality. Which
reverses the CIA triad to the AIC triad.



Workflow and Process Automation Systems

Industrial Control Systems (ICS) provide mechanisms for workflow and process
automation.

An ICS that manages process automation within a single site is usually referred
to as a distributed control system (DCS).

ICS logic is typically comprised of networked PLCs that operate machinery.



Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition

SCADA systems take the place of a control server in large-scale, multiple-site
ICSs. SCADA aggregates data from all of the embedded field devices.





---
IooT Networks

Operational Technology Networks

OT networks are cabled networks of industrial applications using serial data
protocols or Ethernet.



Cellular Networks

Also called baseband radio:
  -> Narrowbannd-IoT (NB-IoT); low-power version of 4G LTE at 20-100Kbps.
  -> LTE Machine Type Communication (LTE-M); same but 1Mbps.



Z-Wave and Zigbee

Z-wave is a wireless mesh protocol used for home automation.

Zigbee is the open-source version of Z-wave.





---
Placement and Security

Consumer Grade Smart Devices

Smart home devices leave vulnerabilities.



Smart Buildings

BAS should be carried out over isolated network segments.



ICS/SCADA

Links between OT and IT networks must be monitors and ACLs enforced.

