LESSON 11 - EXPLAINING NETWORK APPLICATIONS

##########
Explain the Use of Web, File/Print, and Database Services


---
HyperText Transfer Protocol

HTTP is the foundation of web technology. Clients (typically web browsers)
request resources from an HTTP server using a URL at port TCP/80. The server
will either return the data requested or an error message.



HTTP Headers and Payload

Response and request formats are defined in the HTTP header.

Thhe payload is usually serving HTML files.

The web browser then translates and formats all of this together to
form a useful webpage/resource.

POST is the HTTP forms mechanism that enables a user to submit data from the
client to the server.


HTTP is kindof a stateless protocol in that the server is not required to preserve
information about the client during a session.



Web Servers

HTTP servers are what host the pages to be served to clients.

The following server configurations are typical:
  -> Dedicated: the ISP allocates our own private server; typically unmanaged.
  -> Virtual Private Server: The ISP allocates a VM on a physical server;
     isolated from other instances by a hypervisor.
  -> Cloud hosting: Websites are hosted on a cloud across several servers;
     allows for scaleability.
  -> Shared hosting: Websites are hosted within a private directory on a
     shared server. Performance can actually be affected by other clients.





---
Secure Sockets Layer/Transport Layer Security

HTTP sends all data unencrypted. So SSL was made by Netscape. Then TLS was made.

SSL/TLS works as a layer between application and transport layer protocols of
the TCP/IP stack. This is the SESSION LAYER.

When used to encrypt TCP connections for an HTTP application, we call it HTTPS.

We can wrap most TCP/IP application protocols (FTP, POP3/IMAP, SMTP, LDAP, etc)
in SSL/TLS.

TLS can be used with UDP as well, called DTLS, used in VPNs.


To implement HTTPS:
  -> The web server must be installed with a digital certificate issued by some
     trusted certificate authority.
  -> The certificate uses encrypted data to prove the identity of the server,
     assuming that the client trusts the certificate authority.
  -> The certificate wraps a public/private encryption key pair.
  -> The private key is kept secret, only known to the server.
  -> The public key is given to clients via certificate.
  -> The server and client use the key pair in the certificate and a cipher
     suite within the SSL/TLS protocol to set up an encrypted tunnel.
  -> The contents of the tunnel cannot be decrypted without obtaining the
     server's private key through the cipher suite.
  -> All traffic is sent over port TCP/443.





---
File Transfer Protocol

FTP is used in some form when files are being transferred, although in present
day FTP is being considered insecure and HTTPS-based services are providing
file downloads to end users.

FTP is TCP/21 on the server and the server selects a dynamic port on the client.
TCP/21 is the control port used to transfer commands and status information,
but not the data.

Data transfer occurs in one of two modes: active and passive.

In ACTIVE mode the client sends a PORT command specifying the chosen data port
number, typically n+1. The server opens the data connection between the chosen
client port and TCP/20 onn the server.

In PASSIVE mode the client operates a data port, typically n+1, annd sends the
PASV command to the server's control port. The server then opens a random high
port number and sends it to the client using the PORT command. The client then
initiates the connection between the two ports.


Active FTP can cause issues with firewalls because the server is initiating an
inbound connection and cannot predict the port number to be used. If we are
using active FTP, we must check that firewalls between the two systems
support active FTP (stateful inspection firewalls).



Trivial File Transfer Protocol

TFTP is a connectionless protocol on TCP/69.
TFTP isn't guarunteed on delivery and is suited for small files.

It only supports GET and PUT methods, no direct browsing, file deletion, or
any other advanced features FTP offers.





---
Secure File Trannsfer Protocol

SFTP uses a SSH session over TCP/22. Both devices must support SFTP.

We can also use FTP over TLS, there are two ways:
  -> ExplicitTLS (FTPES) - Uses AUTH TLS command to upgrade an unsecure
     connection established over TCP/21 to a secure one. This protects
     authentication credentials. The data connection for the actual file
     transfers can be encrypted with PROT.
  -> ImplicitTLS (FTPS) - Negotiate an SSL/TLS tunnel before the exchange of
     any FTP commands. This mode uses secure port 990 for the control
     connection.

FTPS is diffuicult to configure with firewalls.

FTPES is the preferred method when using FTP with TLS.





---
File and Print Services

Server Message Block

SMB provides the services for Windows file/print sharing.
Samba is what makes UNIX compatible with SMB.

SMB runs on TCP/445 and should be restricted for use on local networks.
Any traffic on the NetBIOS 137-139 and SMB 445 should be blocked by a
perimeter firewall.



Remote Print Protocols

Port 9100 - the standard JetDirect printer port

Innternet Printing Protocol (IPP) - form of HTTP on TCP/631, can be implemented
securely IPPS. It provides better support for status messaging thann 9100

Web Services for Devices/AirPrint - PnP method for devices using bidirectional
status messaging. Allows for secure connections to the printing device.

Printer Sharing - A host connect to the printer using network connnection, then
shares the printer object using SMB. Print jobs and messaging is then done
through the host that connected the printer.





---
Database Services

Databases provision information in a format that can be read and updated through
some type of query language.


Relational databases store information in tables with rows(records) and
columns(fields) that uniquely ID each record.

SQL operates in relational databases.

By default RDBMS ports are insecure, but can be installed with a certificate
and configured to enable TLS transport encryption.





##########
EXPLAIN THE USE IF EMAIL AND VOICE SERVICES

---
Simple Mail Transfer Protocol

SMTP specifies how email is delivered from one system to another:
  -> Client submits a message for delivery to the local SMTP server over
     secure port 587. The message is copied to the Sent items folder on the
     local IMAP server using the secure port 993.
  -> The local SMTP server uses DNS to lookup the MX record listing of an IP
     address for the remote recipient domain and establishes a session with
     the remote SMTP server over unencrypted port 25.
  -> If the remote message accepts the message, then it copies it to the inbox
     folder of the user's mailbox hosted on an IMAP server.
  -> The remote user's mail client connects to its IMAP server over secure port
     993 to download the message.


If there is a communication problem in SMTP, the server will send an NDR to the
sender. The NDR contains an error code referencing the error.


STARTTLS/SMTPS is the TLS version of SMTP which can be implemented in two ways:
  -> STARTTLS - a command that upgrades an existing insecuure connection to use
     TLS. Also known as explicit TLS.
  -> SMTPS - establishhes a secure connection before any commands are issued.
     Also known as implicit TLS.


STARTTLS is implemented more widely than SMTPS. SMTP configurations typically
use ports:
  -> 25 - used for message relay between SMTP servers, or message transfer
     agents. The STARTTLS command can be used to set up the secure connection
     on demand.
  -> 587 - used by mail clients or mail submission agents (MSAs) to submit
     messages for delivery by an SMTP server. Servers configured to support
     port 587 should use STARTTLS and require authentication before
     message submission.





---
Mailbox Access Protocols

SMTP is only useful to deliver mail to hosts that are permanately available.
When a message is received by a SMTP server, it delivers the message to a
mailbox server.

A mailbox access protocol allows an email client to manage the mailbox.



Post Office Protocol

POP3 is the active version. A POP client like Outlook or Thunderbird establishes
a connection to the POP server on TCP/110. The user is authenticated, and the
contents of his or her mailbox are downloaded for processing on the local PC.
In general, the messages are deleted from the mailbox server once they are
downloaded onto the client.

POP transfers data as cleartext. POP can be used with TLS over TCP/995.



Internet Message Access Protocol

IMAP is a mail retrieval protocol. IMAP supports permanent connnections to a
server and connecting multiple clients to the same mailbox concurrenntly. It
also supports client management on the server and multiple mailboxes.

Clients connect to an IMAP server over TCP/143. TLS can be used on TCP/993.





---
Voice and Video Services


Private Branch Exchange

PBXs are automated switchboards that provide a single connection point for an
organization's voice lines.



VoIP-Enabled PBX

VoIP PBXs establish connections between local VoIP endpoints with data
transmitted over the local Ethernet network. VoIP PBXs can also route incoming
and outgoing calls to and from external networks.

VoIP PBXs are typically placed at the nnetwork edge, protected by a firewall.
Ethernet, switching, and IP is used internally to forward data. The VoIP PBX
uses the organizations Internet link to connect to a VoIP provider, who
facilitates inward/outward dialing to voice-based telly networks.





---
VoIP Protocols

Voice/Video data can be streamed one way (media streaming) or two ways
(VoIP, VTC).

VoIP protocols cover one or more of the following functions:
  -> Session control: establish, manage, tear down sessions. Handles tasks like
     user discovery, availability advertising, negotiating session params, and
     aession management and termination.
  -> Data transport: handles delivery of actual voice/data.
  -> QoS: provides info to a QoS system, which ensures data quality.



Session Initiation Protocol

SIP is widely used.

SIP end-points are the end-user devices, each device has a SIP URI.
The SIP URI is like the phone number.

SIP runs over UDP or TCP/5060 or TCP/5061 (secured)



Real-Time Transport Protocol and RTP Control Protocol

RTP is what provides the actual delivery of real-time data. RTP enables the
delivery of a stream of media via UDP, with some TCP reliability features.

Each RTP stream uses an RTCP session to monitor the quality of the connection
and to provide reports to the endpoints.





---
VoIP Phones

VoIP phones can be hardware or computer software.

VoIP phones use VLAN tagging to differentiate from other traffic.

SIPS is the SSL/TLS version of SIP.





---
Voice Gateways

Voice gateways translate between VoIP systems and legacy voice equipment.
